# rpde-scripts

Scripts that can be used to walk and analyse [RPDE feeds](https://openactive.io/realtime-paged-data-exchange/).

## Set-up

```sh
npm install
```

## SCRIPT: walkRpde.js

This script walks an RPDE feed, starting from a given URL, and saves the feed pages to a directory. It will walk the feed until it reaches the end of the feed or until it reaches the `END_URL` or `MAX_PAGES` limit.

### Running

Replacing the URL with the URL of the RPDE feed you want to walk:

```sh
START_URL=https://acme.com/api/rpde/session-series \
  REL_OUTPUT_DIR=output \
  node walkRpde.js
```

This will start outputting a list of files `rpde-*.json` e.g. `rpde-1.json`, `rpde-2.json`, etc until the end of the feed has been reached by the script. These files will all be saved in the `REL_OUTPUT_DIR` directory. So, in this case, they will be saved as `output/rpde-1.json`, `output/rpde-2.json`, etc.

You can then run queries like (you will need to install `jq`):

```sh
cat output/rpde-*.json | jq --slurp '[.[].items[]] | length'
```

Which will return how many total items there are

### Options

Options are set using environment variables. They are:

- `START_URL` - (REQUIRED unless `CONTINUE_PREVIOUS_RUN`) The URL to start walking the RPDE feed from
- `REL_OUTPUT_DIR` - (REQUIRED) Relative Output Directory. If included, RPDE feed pages will be outputted to this directory. This directory is relative to the current working directory.
  - e.g. `export REL_OUTPUT_DIR=slots` will output to `./slots/rpde-1.json`, `./slots/rpde-2.json`, etc
- `CONTINUE_PREVIOUS_RUN` - (REQUIRED unless `START_URL` is set) If set to `true`, the script will continue from the last page it downloaded. Otherwise, it will start from the beginning of the feed.
- `END_URL` - (OPTIONAL) The URL to stop walking the RPDE feed at. If omitted, the script will walk to the very end of the feed
- `MAX_PAGES` - (OPTIONAL) The maximum number of pages to walk. If omitted, the script will walk to the very end of the feed
  - e.g. `export MAX_PAGES=10`
- `API_KEY` - (OPTIONAL) API key used to make RPDE requests. It will be set as the `X-Api-Key` HTTP header
- `BEARER_TOKEN` - (OPTIONAL) Bearer token used to make RPDE requests. It will be set as the `Authorization` HTTP header

#### Some other example queries:

_How many items in the feed have state: 'updated'_:

```sh
cat output/rpde-*.json | jq -s '[.[].items[] | select(.state == "updated")] | length'
```

_Latest `startDate` for items in this ScheduledSession/Slot feed_:

```sh
cat output/rpde-*.json | jq --slurp '[.[].items[].data.startDate] | max'
```

_Get item with ID X_


```sh
cat output/rpde-*.json | jq -s '[.[].items[] | select(.data["@id"] == "X")]'
```

_Get the first item with state=updated_

```sh
cat output/rpde-*.json | jq -s '[.[].items[] | select(.state == "updated")][0]'
```

_Get the first 10 items with state=updated_

```sh
cat output/rpde-*.json | jq -s '[.[].items[] | select(.state == "updated")][0:10]'
```

## SCRIPT: perfTestRpde.js

You can get performance stats about an RPDE feed with `perfTestRpde.js`. Its interface is the same as `walkRpde.js`. e.g.:

```sh
export START_URL=<e.g. https://opensessions.io/api/rpde/session-series>
node perfTestRpde.js
```

This will not download the pages, but will instead walk to the end of the feed and then output stats about request times and total time taken. An example output:

```
Performance stats:

- Total time taken: 105711.00003899634
- Average request time: 600.5119533183223
- p90: 657.3589110001922
- p95: 808.9024389982224
- p99: 986.9369449988008
```

## SCRIPT: uploadToDb.js

This is a script that uploads files generated by `walkRpde.js` to a PostgreSQL database.

Usage:

```sh
export REL_INPUT_DIR=output
export POSTGRES_USER=<user>
export POSTGRES_PASSWORD=<password>
export POSTGRES_HOST=<host>
export POSTGRES_DATABASE=<db>
export CLEAR_EXISTING=true
node walkRpde.js
```

Details of each option in [uploadToDb.js Options](#uploadtodbjs-options).

### uploadToDb.js Options

Options are set using environment variables. They are:

- `REL_INPUT_DIR` - (REQUIRED) The directory containing the RPDE feed files to upload. This needs to be the same directory as the one set in `walkRpde.js` using the `REL_OUTPUT_DIR` environment variable.
- `POSTGRES_USER`, `POSTGRES_PASSWORD`, `POSTGRES_HOST`, `POSTGRES_DATABASE` - (REQUIRED) PostgreSQL connection details.
- `CLEAR_EXISTING` - (OPTIONAL) If set to `true`, the script will clear the existing data in the database before uploading the new data. Otherwise, the script will append the new data to the existing data.

## License

Copyright © 2017 Imin Ltd.

Released under the MIT license.

